Hello and welcome back as you can see I have Microsoft skills her management studio loaded up and today
will be working with Araf medic data types in rescue all as you can see.
I have two databases ready to go.
And today we're working with console games database inside of Atlanta open up.
Make sure you have the same information.
We have two different tables.
One is called cancel dates in which you have around five different columns and that one is called console
games in which you have about 10 different columns.
So let's go ahead and work with console games.
So just select new Qwerty.
And inside of it our first step as always is to select all from console games.
Make sure you type in the table name of the database name and the correct table name.
Otherwise you can also drag and drop.
So just execute it now and we can see here we have different columns.
Game rank game name flat for name game either John or publisher for American sales European sales you
new sales and utter sales North American sales European sales of nice house.
And our sales are represented in millions publisher genre game you reply for name game name and game
rank.
Our old easy to identify and easy to understand what they stand for.
So basically we're working with a lot of different games here and trying to analyze the data of different
games from different platforms and different years.
As you can see this table consists of 16000 rows of data which is a lot.
And we'll try to minimize that or rather experiment with this table to make it more useful to us.
So the first thing I want to see is I do not want to calculate the number of total sales for every single
game here because right now how in the know how many Final Fantasy 5 copies were sold.
I have to add 0 0 two point 2.40 three million plus 20000 and that's just not convenient enough for
me because imagine adding all of these Nehra for different column 16000 times over and over again that
would just drive you crazy.
So what we're going to be doing today is learning how to make as well or in our games Microsoft has
killed to do it for us.
The first thing I want to do is I want to add a new column and I want it to be consistent.
So I want to add a column that will be called Global sales and this is what you would expect this to
be the syntax for it and it is the syntax for it.
The only thing that we need to change is we need to say what table we're adding this column to.
So in our case we are saying the altered table and then I just drag and drop this here.
So now if we execute it it three that was my but just remember to include your data type of the column.
So not making any mistakes because we're working with floats as North American cells or European cells
euphony cells or cells.
I think it's appropriate to assign float data type to global sales so I'll also write it correctly.
So now if we exited this it will solve us roofing completed successfully.
Let's again select all from console games and if we're going to do this right now what we should see
is we should see 11 columns now and global sales has now values all over the place.
This is nothing to worry about.
In fact this is absolutely normal and logical because we've just created this table this column and
we haven't added any information to it.
So it's just an empty column and by definition empty columns are filled with notes.
Now if you take a look here in the columns section of the object Explorer you can see that we have only
10 columns still.
This is the fact that you need to do is right click refresh and there it is now.
Now I have 11 columns everything science everything's at the right place.
Now we don't want this to be empty.
We want this to be useful.
So global sales.
All I want to say is that global sales have to be equal to North American sales plus European sales
positive Benito's plus other sales.
So in order to do this they need to do is I need to say that first of all I'm updating console games.
So again the same way altering works with the design of a database outlaid works with more of a data
inside of it.
So we're updating the console games and then I want to say that I want to set global sales to be cool
to American sales plus and Leger's drag and drop because it's much easier European cells plus Japanese
sales plus other sales and logis quickly put this on the bottom.
So it runs in the correct order and how we execute this.
We should see the 11th column magically gain sense.
So now instead of having to calculate all of this every time by myself I can actually go ahead and see
the global sales the total amount of sales right here and this neatly organized last column.
Now this is fun isn't it.
It's actually quite amazing what you can do with update and alter commands because alter command ultra
function lets you alter the design of database add or subtract different columns maybe merge them together.
We'll learn about that later on the course and sat or other update lets you to work with the table with
the dating side of it with set allowing you to create different different patterns and different rules
for certain columns.
So to make sure we learned this today.
Let's quickly go ahead and run this exercise.
What you need to do is you need to create a column or rather just this table so that the child us the
percentage what percent North American sales were or the total sales.
So it's basically we will have a new column called North American sales percentage that shows us in
percent.
How much was it on the global sales.
Sounds pretty easy and it is because all we need to do again is we're going to our favorite older table
command.
We're going to alter table console games in which we will say that I want to add a new column called
North American sales percent.
You can call it whatever you want.
For me this is just convenient.
Again I'll make it all the data type float I'll execute it right now.
Then I want to update or other religious selected to make sure it's all been correctly select all from
console games and now we get this we can see another one.
Twelf column that again is filled with no values nothing to worry about her again.
All they need to do is fade space and sound a bit and typing update.
Console games.
And after that I want to say that I want to set a sales P.C. to be equal to North American sales divided
by global sales
so now if we're on this it should give us this error.
And this is because divide by zero error and comfort.
So as you remember it's very important.
The one of the most fundamental important basic rules of math is that you can never divide by zero.
And if you just control this for now and just select everything from the table.
Right now we can see that global sales will have zeros in them.
Not a lot of times but sometimes it will.
And that's due to the fact that we're cutting this item short in the sense that we're not counting up
to every single copy sold so some items will have very few copies sold less than ten thousand.
And that would equal to as dividing by zero which is not correct.
So what we want to do here what we need to do here is to use in our favor where function in which we'll
specify that we only do this we only set on from Oracle sales per cent to be equal North American sales
divide by global sales where global sales not equals zero.
So this is one version that you can run it because if you put the exclamation point before equals that
becomes not equals or you can also just say bigger than zero.
This also works.
So now you run this it will run it on the stakes.
But atrophying you might want to do because you want this to be displayed in percentage.
We need to multiply it by a hundred.
So now that everything is ready and correct to run we execute it as you can see no mistakes given to
us now because we followed every mathematical rule.
And now if we go here we can see that North American sales per cent actually does work in this case.
We get a lot of different numbers and the worry that North American sell sometimes or bigger and global
sales again that's percentage.
So in case this game Donkey Kong land to North American sells are made up almost 60 percent of the total
sales which is quite interesting and you can work with this at just it advanced so to say table much
easier and you can track much more information as you understand we can easily create another column
named European 12 percent Japanese sales percentage and work our way from there.
So as we learned today there's a lot you can do with tables than just working with the data.
You can adjust table design to fit your needs and then adjust different columns the way you want to
see them.
If you don't like some data or for example right here if we don't like the way that is being portrayed
we have a lot of zeros zeroed out something we can just multiply everything by 100 and say that now
we're getting or other a multiply by a thousand get our total number of cells in essence rather than
in millions.
We can do that and you can do a lot of other things in which you can just set a whole new column which
will just change one letter in the name or add a certain symbol at the end.
So there is a lot of possibilities of using this update and alter commands.
And there's a lot of possibilities using the set function.
I hope you enjoy this lecture and I'll see you in the next one.